improve HOL blocking and related protocol glossary entries (#41525)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/head_of_line_blocking/index.md

sidebar: glossarysidebar
---

In computer networking, **head-of-line blocking** (_HOL blocking_) refers to a performance bottleneck that occurs when a queue of {{glossary("packet", "packets")}} is held up by the first packet in the queue, even though other packets in the queue could be processed.

In HTTP/1.1, requests on a single {{glossary("TCP")}} connection are usually sent sequentially;
HTTP/1.1 also defines an optional feature called _HTTP pipelining_ that allows multiple requests to be sent without waiting for earlier responses.

> Even with pipelining, however, responses must be sent in the same order the server received the requests, so the connection remains first-in, first-out and HOL blocking can still occur.

Author: Yep. Appreciations for your review!

I tried to replace this, since:

1. pipelining feature of HTTP/1.1, mentioned in the paragraph below, did try to fix the problem, but it proved to _have little avail and problem exists_, not to mention that it's not implemented widely.
2. I tried to explain it in a manner that what's the problem in HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2, HTTP/3 and how they fix it. **i have to admit that in HTTP/1.1 i made a mistake to confuse the non-pipelining and pipelining into one concept, making it hard to understand**

What'bout this?

```suggestion
In HTTP/1.1, requests on a single {{glossary("TCP")}} connection are usually sent sequentially.
Since there's usually a limitation on the number of TCP connections for each client to a server, doing a new request over one of these connections has to wait for the previous request on the same connection to be completed before the client can make a new request, which cause HOL blocking problems.

HTTP/1.1 defines an optional feature called _HTTP pipelining_ that allows multiple requests to be sent without waiting for earlier responses, which try to work around this.
However the responses still must be sent in the same order the server received the requests, so the connection remains first-in, first-out and HOL blocking can still occur.
```

sidebar: glossarysidebar
---

In computer networking, **head-of-line blocking** (_HOL blocking_) refers to a performance bottleneck that occurs when a queue of {{glossary("packet", "packets")}} is held up by the first packet in the queue, even though other packets in the queue could be processed.

In HTTP/1.1, requests on a single {{glossary("TCP")}} connection are usually sent sequentially — a new request can't be made on the connection while waiting for a response to the previous request.
This can lead to HOL blocking problems even if there are several TCP connections between the client and server.

HTTP/1.1 defines an optional feature called _HTTP pipelining_ that unsuccessfully attempted to work around HOL blocking, by allowing requests to be sent without waiting for earlier responses.
Unfortunately the design of HTTP/1.1 means that responses must be returned in the same order as the requests were received, so HOL blocking can still occur if a request takes a long time to complete.

> Network conditions such as congestion, packet loss (and the resulting TCP retransmissions), or {{glossary("TCP slow start")}} can also delay transmission and cause later responses to be blocked by earlier ones.

Author: sure that's good! thanks!
